--- Page 14 ---
Preface
This book owes its beginnings to the pioneering work of Claude Shannon in 1948
on achieving reliable communication over a noisy transmission channel. Shannon’s
central theme was that if the signaling rate of the system is less than the channel
capacity, reliable communication can be achieved if one chooses proper encoding
and decoding techniques. The design of good codes and of efficient decoding methods,
initiated by Hamming, Slepian, and others in the early 1950s, has occupied the
energies of many researchers since then. Much of this work is highly mathematical
in nature, and requires an extensive background in modern algebra and probability
theory to understand. This has acted as an impediment to many practicing engineers
and computer scientists, who are interested in applying these techniques to real sys-
tems. One of the purposes of this book is to present the essentials of this highly
complex material in such a manner that it can be understood and applied with only
a minimum of mathematical background.
Work on coding in the 1950s and 1960s was devoted primarily to developing the
theory of efficient encoders and decoders. In 1970, the first author published a book
entitled An introduction to Error-Correcting Codes, which presented the fundamentals
of the previous two decades of work covering both block and convolutional codes.
The approach was to explain the material in an easily understood manner, with a
minimum of mathematical rigor. The present book takes the same approach to cover-
ing the fundamentals of coding. However, the entire manuscript has been rewritten
and much new material has been added. In particular, during the 1970s the emphasis
in coding research shifted from theory to practical applications. Consequently, three
completely new chapters on the applications of coding to digital transmission and
storage systems have been added. Other major additions include a comprehensive
treatment of the error-detecting capabilities of block codes, and an emphasis on
probabilistic decoding methods for convolutional codes. A brief description of each
chapter follows.
Chapter | presents an overview of coding for error control in data transmission
xiii
